# AI Integrated Web To Predict Dementia Case

This is a computer vision final project that was made using the combination of next.js, Grad-CAM, LLM, and Swin Transformer model technology. The web itself has two features, which are a quiz page where anyone who accesses the website can guess the brain MRI on the image has which class [Mild Demented, Moderate Demented, Non Demented, Very Mild Demented] and after choosing one of the option, it will tell you which answer was right, a Grad-CAM, and an explanation by Gemini AI (2.5 Flash) on why those are the answer and which part of the brain are affected. The second feature of the web is the Guess with AI feature where the user can upload an image and gets a predicted class by Swin Transformer on which dementia class is the brain, then the user will also get a Grad-CAM image and the choice button of whether to get an explanation by Gemini (2.5 Flash) or Mistral (Pixtral-12B-2409) AI. The explanation will be about the affected part of the brain and how it affects the human's functionality. 

The Swin Transformer Model trained using this dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/uraninjo/augmented-alzheimer-mri-dataset. The model was trained for 3 epoch. It has 97% accuracy and 0.0662 loss for the test set. 

To run the backend, you have to download the model from this link first and put it into the backend of the project file. It can't be uploaded directly into github because of the file size limitation. Here is the link for the model: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1rgDFrSw5qQMcv0blSPCsLcEevZYdidwD?usp=sharing
